{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red75\green172\blue198;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tx9514\b\f0\fs40\lang9 JavaScript : -\par
\b0\fs36\par
JavaScript was invented by Brendan Eich in 1995. It was developed for Netscape 2, and became the ECMA-262 standard in 1997.\par
\par
The latest version of ECMAScript is ECMAScript 2023, also known as ES14\par
\b Features of JavaScript:\par
\b0\fs28 According to a recent survey conducted by Stack Overflow, JavaScript is the most popular language on earth. \par
With advances in browser technology and JavaScript having moved into the server with Node.js and other frameworks, JavaScript is capable of so much more. Here are a few things that we can do with JavaScript: \par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tx9514 JavaScript was created in the first place for DOM manipulation. Earlier websites were mostly static, after JS was created dynamic Web sites were made.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Functions in JS are objects. They may have properties and methods just like other objects. They can be passed as arguments in other functions.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Can handle date and time.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Performs Form Validation although the forms are created using HTML.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}No compiler is needed.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tx9514\fs36\par
-------------------\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tx9514 javaScript is a client side as wel as server side scripting language.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}functiona orianted,object orianted, multiparadigm , scripting language\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Dynamic Type\b0 :   \fs28 JavaScript is dynamically typed, meaning you don't have to declare the data type of a variable explicitly. Variables can hold values of any data type, and their types can change during the execution of the program.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\fs32 javascript have has a capability to convert Html into Dhtml\fs28\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tx9514\fs32     : \fs28 The term "DHTML" stands for Dynamic HTML, which refers to a combination of technologies used to create dynamic and interactive web content. JavaScript plays a crucial role in enabling DHTML by manipulating the Document Object Model (DOM) of HTML documents dynamically\fs32 .\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tx9514 And We can Say Javascript is an very Simple programming language.\fs28\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tx9514\fs32\par
\b JavaScript :             \b0 | client Side   |\\\par
                                   | server Side | -  >       FullStack                \par
                                   | Database    |/\par
\par
JavaScript engines often use a combination of interpretation and compilation techniques to optimize performance.\par
Depend On Browser .\par
Jit compiler for boost performanse.\par
\par
\b JVM ( jsvm ) : \b0\par
A JavaScript virtual machine (JSVM) is an abstract computing machine that simulates the execution of JavaScript code. It provides an environment for executing JavaScript programs independently of the underlying hardware or operating system.\par
\par
______________________Browser Api______________________\par
   document, console, localHost , session , setTimeOut\par
    it is not part of javaScript,   it is part of Browser\tab\par
______________________________________________________\tab\par
\b document object have some behavior (funcionality)\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tx9514\b0 getElementById()\fs28\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\fs32 getElementByClass()\fs28\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\fs32 getElementByTageName()\fs28\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\fs32 write()\fs28\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\fs32 writeLn()\fs28\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\fs32 createElement()\fs28\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tx9514\fs32\par
\b in javaScript Every object represent any factory or class.\par
we can get name by using:\par
<object>.constructor.name\par
\b0 eg: document.write(document.constructor.name ) \par
\fs28 output// HtmlDocument : \par
\b\fs32 constructor is a property \par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tx9514 javaScript Engine :\par
\b0 A JavaScript engine is a program or an interpreter that executes JavaScript code. It is responsible for converting the human-readable JavaScript code into a machine code that the computer can understand.\par
JavaScript engines are used in web browsers, servers, and other applications that need to run JavaScript code. The most popular JavaScript engines are V8 (used in Google Chrome and Microsoft Edge), SpiderMonkey (used in Firefox), and JavaScriptCore (used in Safari).\par
JavaScript engines are typically developed by web browser vendors, and every major browser has one\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tx9514\b\par
Everything exicute in call stack \par
\b0 The call stack is a critical component of the JavaScript engine's runtime environment. \par
\b Globel Exicution Context\par
\b0 The global execution context is the initial execution context that is created when a JavaScript program starts running. It represents the environment in which the top-level code of a script is executed. Here's an overview of the global execution context and its characteristics:\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tx9514\b Memory Componant\par
Code Componant\par
\par
\par
\fs36 Variable : \par
\b0\fs28 In JavaScript, variables are used to store data values that can be referenced and manipulated throughout the program. Variables in JavaScript can be declared using the \b var\b0 , \b let\b0 , or \b const \b0 keywords. Here's a brief overview of each type of variable declaration\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tx9514\b\fs36 DataType : \par
\b0\fs28  avaScript is a dynamically-typed language, meaning that variables in JavaScript can hold values of any data type without requiring explicit declaration of the type. Here are the primary data types in JavaScript:\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tx9514\b Number\b0 : Represents both integer and floating-point numbers. Examples: let num = 10;, let floatNum = 3.14;.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b String\b0 : Represents a sequence of characters enclosed in single (' ') or double (" ") quotes. Example: let str = "Hello, World!";\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Boolean\b0 : Represents a logical value of either true or false. Example: let isTrue = true;\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Undefined\b0 : Represents a variable that has been declared but not assigned a value. Example: let x; (The value of x is undefined).\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Null\b0 : Represents an intentional absence of any value or object. Example: let y = null;.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b BigInt : \b0 is a numbers larger than the maximum safe integer \par

\pard\fi1440\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tx9514 1 (number)          1n ( BigInt ) \par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tx9514   \cf1\b Note \cf0 :  \b0 JavaScript doesn't have a distinct "character" type like some other programming languages such as C or Java. Instead, in JavaScript, characters are represented as strings of length 1.\par
\par
\b Undefine Vs Null:\par
undefined: \b0 typically means a variable has been declared but not yet assigned a value, or a property does not exist.\par
\b null: \b0 is used to signify an intentional absence of any value. It's often used to reset or explicitly denote the absence of an object reference\par

\pard\fi730\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tx9514 _____________________\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tx9514\b Object\b0\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Array\b0\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Function\b0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tx9514\b\par
\b0\tab\tab\tab\tab\par
\b\fs36\par
}
 